Fobnail p3 (#479)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2022-03-15-fobnail_3rd_phase.md

           is to present the development progress of this project. This phase
           was focused on platform provisioning.'
cover: /covers/usb_token.png
author: krystian.hebel
layout: post
published: true
date: 2022-03-15
archives: "2022"

tags:
  - fobnail
  - firmware
  - tpm
  - attestation
categories:
  - Firmware
  - Security

---

# About the Fobnail Token project

The Fobnail Token is a project that aims to provide a reference architecture for
building offline integrity measurement servers on the USB device and clients
running in Dynamically Launched Measured Environments (DLME). It allows the
Fobnail owner to verify the trustworthiness of the running system before
performing any sensitive operation. This project was founded by [NlNet
Foundation](https://nlnet.nl/). More information about the project can be found
in the [Fobnail documentation](https://fobnail.3mdeb.com/). Also, make sure to
read other posts related to this project by visiting
[fobnail](https://www.blog.3mdeb.com/tags/fobnail/) tag.

# Keys used in communication between Fobnail Token and attester

In current phase two key pairs are used during communication, those are AIK and

> EK. Both belong to TPM installed on attester and their private keys never have

Author: But this is not a limitation, there are cases when key has to be exported. One of such cases is moving key to another TPM, or it can be used to sign data in code instead of passing it to TPM, which is usually much faster.

> EK. Both belong to TPM installed on attester and their private keys never have

Author: (Proper) AIK can't be loaded on another TPM because it is created under given EK, which in turn can't be exported. You can manually change flags and load "the same" key (same `e` and `n`), but it would give different hash and different `loaded_key_name` in turn. This is one of reasons why Make/ActivateCredential is enough to prove that those two keys (or objects in general) are connected.

I will try to add a note that mentions that private key is temporarily saved in RAM during creation, but I don't want to spend too much content on that matter.

> EK. Both belong to TPM installed on attester and their private keys never have

Author: (Proper) AIK can't be loaded on another TPM because it is created under given EK, which in turn can't be exported. You can manually change flags and load "the same" key (same `e` and `n`), but it would give different hash and different `loaded_key_name` in turn. This is one of reasons why Make/ActivateCredential is enough to prove that those two keys (or objects in general) are connected.

I will try to add a note that mentions that private key is temporarily saved in RAM during creation, but I don't want to spend too much content on that matter.

used by Fobnail Token for verification against trusted CA certificate chains,
we've created [a script for "manufacturing" it](https://github.com/fobnail/fobnail-attester/blob/main/tools/tpm_manufacture.sh)
whenever it is absent.

The only use of EK right now is proving that AIK comes from the same TPM.

# Tying AIK with EK

TPM has to have access to EK in order to load and use AIK, but this doesn't
imply that external party can test that AIK lives indeed inside TPM, or if it
was created outside TPM by man in the middle. EK is not a signing key, so it
can't sign AIK and prove its validity that way. `TPM2_ActivateCredential()` call
was made to prove association of loaded object (like a key pair) to a credential
(like Storage Key, e.g. EK).

To prove that AIK comes from the same as EK, Fobnail first obtains and verifies
EK certificate and asks for public AIK in TSS format. Based on this data it
creates encrypted blob of randomly created secret, which can be only decrypted
on TPM that has both EK and AIK currently loaded, and AIK is under the same
hierarchy as EK. By returning correct secret to Fobnail, attester proves this is

> the case.

Reviewer: We can mention here that credential activation not only proves that AIK comes from TPM but also proves that it has proper flags set, like protection policy, and other flags that make this key and AIK and not just some ordinary key.

Author: Done

CI-testing full solution, instead of just build tests for each component
separately.

### Cloning

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/fobnail/fobnail-sdk.git
$ git clone https://github.com/fobnail/fobnail-attester.git --recurse-submodules
$ git clone https://github.com/fobnail/fobnail.git --recurse-submodules
```

Components should always work with each other when all repositories are cloned
at the same time, but for extra safety, these are commits used at the time of
writing this blog post:

* SDK: `53f19086c993 2022-03-08|Fix build problems on nRF target`
* Attester: `85e8ab442e9f 2022-03-17|docker.sh: review fixes;
  docker/entrypoint.sh: fix permissions issue`
* Fobnail: `9a8a404f9e5f 2022-03-16|tools/lfs/src/main.rs: add option to format
  flash before doing command`

### Building and installing SDK

Fobnail SDK is used to build code for Fobnail token, i.e. Verifier part of
attestation process.

```bash
$ cd fobnail-sdk
# This takes some time, but it is one-time operation until SDK is updated
$ ./build.sh
# Feel free to use different directory or name, as long as it is in $PATH
$ ln -s $(readlink -f ./run-fobnail-sdk.sh) ~/bin/run-fobnail-sdk.sh

> ```

Reviewer: There is no need to build SDK, because we already publish it on GHCR. User needs only the `run-fobnail-sdk.sh` script installed in PATH. Latest SDK version will be automatically pulled.

Author: Done

### Building Attester's Docker image

Attester requires access to SMBIOS tables to read metadata (platform serial
number, manufacturer etc.) so as of now it has to be started with different set
of permissions. For this reason, another Docker container is used for building
and running Attester. This container also manages building every component

> through one script to make it as easy to use as possible. You just have to point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through a single script to make it as easy to use as possible. You just have to point
```

Author: Done

it to Verifier's code and everything else is done by that script.

```bash
$ cd fobnail-attester
$ docker build -t fobnail/fobnail-attester .

> ```

Reviewer: Please move this code into section below. It is a bit out of context here.

Author: This is part of "Building Attester's Docker image", it would be out of context in next section. I will try to merge these into one.

Reviewer: @krystian-hebel ok, missed that, I thought it was in Building and installing SDK
